Can you run faster than a human? Well,
yeah, robots certainly can. Take a look
at this. A robot running record is
getting plenty of attention after a half
in a half marathon race
in Beijing. Look at him. He goes, yes.
>> I can feel his emotion.
>> So, he he he actually beat the human
record that was made during what?
Portugal? That was I think that was the
last
>> March 8th.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah, that was 6 weeks ago.
And I think he he
So the robot managed to
get the record.
>> [laughter]
>> And I could be mistaken, but I think
that this is the same robot that slammed
into
the side barrier just just minutes
before. And even then
and still
>> and still beat the human record. All
right, Maimuna is here, our China
correspondent. She's been watching all
things social media. Where is his head?
Or its head. Um yeah, so they they they
broke the human record. Tell us more.
>> Yeah, I mean, this is the second edition
of this robot marathon that China has
held. And I think it's remarkable just
the leap of the technology in the course
of 1 year. Because last year, if you
recall, the the fastest robot took what?
2 hours 40 minutes. And now it took a
third of the time. So, it was really
quite a leap in the technology there. Um
and it's not just about speed, right?
It's also about the number of autonomous
robots that participated this year. 40%
of the robots were autonomous versus
last year where almost none of them they
were pretty much all remote controlled.
And a part of it was because the
organizers also revised the rule. They
basically put a penalty for those that
are remote controlled, your race time
has to be multiplied by 1.2 times. So,
actually this robot was not the fastest.
There was another remote controlled
robot that was the fastest. But because
of the penalty, it was well, not
penalty, the race rules, it was bumped
down to the fifth. Um and um that robot
actually crashed into the barrier just
about 50 minutes before the end. and
then it couldn't get up. It required
some human help to get it up. But
finally, yes.
>> Human robot trophy, I love it.
>> And Honor really really smashed the
competition here because Honor took all
three of the top spots in this robot
competition. Yeah, it looked a bit
deranged without the head.
>> What would you do that day?
>> Even if I try and train for years, I
could never run with this form.
>> But it's just like you're on the other
side with all the humans. And there's a
robot just racing ahead of you.
>> There it is.
>> I love it.
>> This is the one that fell. This is the
one that fell.
>> And then here's the human intervention.
It's coming. It's coming.
>> control one though. It's not the one
that won. But this came in fastest.
>> This was the one that came in fastest.
Okay.
>> So the one that fell down.
>> similar, isn't
>> Yeah, they look similar cuz they're all
by Honor. And they're called Lightning.
They're all called Lightning.
>> called Lightning. All of them were
racing to the finish line.
>> And Honor is the company just for our
viewers who might not be familiar
>> company that used to be a subsidiary of
Huawei before it it was spun off of
Huawei.
>> Okay, so beyond just the in some ways
the gimmick
>> the stretcher out.
>> itself and it's a good
There it is. Okay, it it can't Here.
>> [laughter]
>> It it can't wait to get started again.
>> This is a very elegant fall, by the way.
There were many spectacular falls.
>> Let me [laughter] go.
>> [gasps]
>> I love this. Okay, obviously this is one
as you could say gimmick moment. Look at
this but there's also some other ways
that they're stress testing some of
these robots now, right?
>> Yeah, it is in some ways a stress test,
right? Because the whole the race
terrain was quite difficult. I would say
there were uphill and downhill slopes.
There were barriers. I mean, there were
robots that just tripped right at the
start across the curb and just
completely shattered and had to be taken
away with a stretcher. So it is in some
ways that stress test. Um and also bear
in mind, it is a an event that really
raises the profile and the visibility of
the entire sector. You look at the
participation rate this year, is up
fivefold. 100 teams participated with
300 robots. And that's another challenge
because if it's an autonomous robot, it
has to avoid colliding with the other
300 robots that was racing with it. So,
there are a lot of sort of technical
details you have to ensure that the
battery packs is able to be swapped or
it can last for the entire race, that
the robots do not get overheated and
melt and lose their limbs. I mean, there
are some of them that look like really
drunken and
>> [laughter]
>> you know, walking drunkenly on that race
course. Um
yeah, and and um
it also realistically, there were local
reports that said that the interest in
this race was so high that the search
terms for intelligent robots, for
example, went up 300 times during the
robot race on these e-commerce
platforms. So, it really drives traffic
to some of the companies involved as
well.
>> It's It's really cool. And I think you
put it very nicely, Min-Min, that this
is almost a rehearsal of a fully
autonomous, if you think about EVs,
right? That they can They have to
coexist amongst themselves and not
crashing into each other.
>> of a playing field to really attract
more people to come in and to race in
this. And then throughout that process,
they would reiterate and refine their
products. And eventually, you get those
winners that really dominate, you know,
the industry globally, you know, over
the course of this intense competition
in China.
>> Why did it start ahead though, anyway?
Like we're getting
>> Oh, so they they are sort of staggered
by 30 seconds so that they don't crash
into each other.
>> Min-Min knows burpees.
>> Next stop, HyRoc, okay? Let's see
>> how they do there.
>> Let me see you do a burpee.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, the only
Perhaps the
the blessing here though is I hope they
have their shirts on because everyone at
HyRoc seems to be dispensing with that
the top end of their clothing.
>> [laughter]
>> I mean, come on, man. I mean, it's
probably cold in there.
Anyway, okay.
>> Dave, so bitter cuz he is the marathon
runner, not the HyRoc
>> [laughter]
>> participant. Okay. Um Min-Min, thanks
for bringing that. I love I love the
video. Um
any day we can put that on our shows.